---
layout: post
title: "Product Selectino"
date: 2017-12-01
categories:
- blog
description: Some description
comments: true
---

Intro
Key things to look at
Tools
Phases, initial vs deepdive
Small vs large, cheap vs expensive


Product selection is one of the key pieces to get right and is defintley worth spending some time trying to get it right. If you've been reading the blog so far, you'll know that I'm pretty new to this, but I've tried to learn as much as possible from those that have been doing it longer than me and ultimtley been successful.

It's easy to get totaly overwhelmed initially. There seems like an endless sea of possible categories, niches or products and it's easy to spend a lot of time getting nowhere. I found that the best way to cut thoguht this was to define a clear set of metrices that i was look for, effectivley a socre card. If the product passes, then it's on to the next round, if not, i kill it.

This offers a couple of benefits, first, it forces you to really think about what you're looking for in a product. This deinftley helps flush out any area where you're a bit unclear on which attirbutes are most important. Secondly, and i think this is even more important, it's gives you a rationale to look back at. Imagine in a few months, you've got a couple of products selling, one is a knock out the other barely breaking even. If you've been systematic in how you chose them, you can look back at the metrics and use what you've learnt to refine them. Over time and multiple iteratinos you'll imporve your criteria and hopefuly your hit rate.

# Phases

When I'm researching i try to break it own into a couple of key phases. This first is designed to get a long list of potential optinos, a whole range of ideas that at first glance could be a goer. The second phase is much more involved and designed to try to get a failr solid model around the the key numbers to let me make a decision.

Given that this second phase is much more time consuming, you want to quick remove those products from the process that just aren't going to make much ground.

# Phase one

Phase one is all about volume, get as many ideas on the page as posoible. In term sof metrics I'm look for the following.

Price
Listing quality
Review count and quality
PPC usage
Cost price


Fees


|   a    |   a    |
|:------:|:------:|
|       |   a    |



Hey, this is a piece of text with a [link text][LINK_ID]

[LINK_ID]: http://google.com "Optional Title"
